Hey guys welcome back to the course in this lecture.
I'm going to go over a framework that we use at Sprint Keck to understand the process you should go
through when wireframe.
Now the reason why I'm going over this is because pretty much everyone who's taking this course and
once you've done wireframe before is new to the concept of making low fidelity wireframe High Fidelity
prototypes.
So you're probably sitting here thinking what do I do first.
What happens after that.
What's the lead up to the point where I'm actually in a web site in a tool and I'm drawing it out.
Now the process that I'm going to teach you you don't need to memorize it by any means.
It's helpful to come back to this lecture and kind of forget where you should be doing next but it's
really kind of simple system.
We call it the construction flow but I've heard it be called kind of all sorts of other things.
You can also call it like a design stack.
Really it's just like a one through five step process to go from idea to I put it on paper.
It's a wireframe.
It looks good.
It's helpful to use this framework because it helps you understand what comes first what comes second
what comes next.
And it allows you to make a decision about how much how in-depth you want to get and also forces you
to do a lot of thinking about your application that you otherwise probably wouldn't have done.
Once you follow through the steps and you actually get to the wireframe part or the prototyping part
of the variance that 5 you should feel very comfortable with your idea understanding what your user
needs are what should go into it and you should be in a good position to make a good final product.
The framework is very simple.
It starts with strategy.
Then it goes to scope then it goes to structure.
Then it goes to skeleton and then it finishes with surface.
Now each one of those five describes a point as you go down the list your idea starts to evolve and
it starts to become more substantiated starts to become more real remember because there are just lots
of S's.
And also as you go from the top go all the way to the bottom you go from high level overview.
Lots of big broad vague questions once you probably already answered it all the way down to me actually
get to a point where we're talking about pixels and not overarching strategies or ideas.
So number one you start with strategy.
Now a lot of you've already done this but it's a little bit more substantial than you sitting around
thinking about your idea.
We're also going to focus this on the application itself and not just your general business idea or
what the point of the project is a part of your company.
We're not going to deal with that stuff.
We're just dealing more or less with what your application is what it does why it does that and who's
going to use it.
So our strategy is the question like What does your application do.
Seems really obvious right.
But it really does help to write it out.
Now if you have a one sentence answer for what your application does or your idea is that's extremely
helpful.
Put that at the top.
It's almost kind of like the mission or objective that you'd see at the top of your resume.
Pass that right down.
What does it aim to accomplish.
Now think about that a little bit.
Right.
If building an e-commerce store what's it aim to accomplish it the Web site itself aims to accomplish
being able to list out products and sell them and do that seamlessly and to accommodate lots of products
and lots of different users write lots of traffic.
Now if you're building a mobile application let's say the mobile application for happy hours that is
a mobile application that grabs your location tells you what beer and alcohol happy hours are around
you.
Now what's the strategy behind that strategy is that you expect some people that are in their 20s and
30s to be looking for happy hours but they wanted as simple as possible.
So they want an app and then aptest opens up grabs location and delivers results based off a business
directory.
That's honestly it.
I mean that is your main objective just trying to boil that down into one sentence past that point.
Then you need to start thinking a little bit about the user base that's using your application now.
Who do you think is going to use it.
It doesn't need to be accurate you just need to write this out who you think is going to be using it
then it's really just a question of what are your users needs.
Now if you're in the e-commerce store example if someone comes to your site what are their needs and
needs that they need to buy something where their needs be that maybe they need to buy something in
return something.
Are they coming to your site because they want to find more information.
Let's say you're an information site or a blog are they coming to look for lots of small bits of short
form essays or are they looking for long academic research papers.
These are the things we need to figure out.
So groups of people.
What are they looking for.
And how is your site going to deliver that.
Now this is just a mental exercise because it forces you to think about all the stakeholders in your
application and it forces you to think of what is the big picture.
A lot of times what happens is people skip this step though go into wireframe and the search is building
out a bunch of features they don't really need because they didn't sit down and think about what is
the core mission of my application.
Now once you've actually written that out then you can actually use that as a guideline to say OK I
need a service from Trinity to service user I need to serve this need.
Now you don't have to absolutely write this out.
I strongly prefer you do.
It's very helpful.
It's something you can use later whenever you do actually go and get your application built or whatever.
I find it very useful.
You don't actually have to do this in your head.
This part honestly with me it only takes 10 to 15 minutes to even do this.
Probably because I built so many applications now.
And if you're new to it it might take a little bit of thinking.
You don't have to research this at all you don't to jump online and look around at different types of
potential customers or markets or any of that nonsense.
It's just a mental exercise to help you wrap your head around the big big picture.
OK.
So now let's move on to Step Two.
Scope scope is where you are now kind of list out every single functional requirement you can think
of that's going to go into your application or your website.
Previously we've established who the users are and what they need now what functions will we actually
need to put in there.
If people are coming to your Web site because you sell daily deals now if people are coming to your
website because you sell weekly deals and they need to keep up to date with everything that's happening
you're going to need say something that captures their e-mail address.
OK.
Wow.
OK that's great.
Or you write down a function to capture an email address later you're going to figure out how that does
it.
But right now you're just worried about OK that's a function that I think my web site will need to handle.
Try to think about every single thing you try to imagine you are using your web site and your application
what are you going to run into.
What are things that you're going to need these if you will always forget are things like Do your users
need to log in and they need to log in.
Right that our need to log in.
Do they need to have guest access.
Is it a web site that you don't need to log in to see everything.
But if you do log in you get to see other things write that up.
Do you need to use Facebook Connect.
If your application uses some social network information they might need to connect their Facebook that's
another function you'll need to write down Facebook Connect.
Think about things that happen when something goes wrong.
E-commerce store and an e-commerce store what happens if they get shipped the wrong thing.
Your application is going to need to handle that somehow.
Right.
And the user is going to need to find some way of recourse.
So remember to bring in all sorts of things like that to write down for instance ways that they can
process like refunds or something like that or in the case that a user puts their information incorrect
incorrectly.
They can change their password and things like that.
Also don't forget that you are going to be operating this application.
Now when you're operating the application that means that you need to be able to control basic things
like control who your users are.
You don't need to be able to delete users if you need to ban them or anything like that.
You need to keep track of for instance if you're selling something you're going need to keep track of
what you're selling how many you've sold how many even shipped your records things like that.
So keep in mind what it's the bare minimum amount of functionality you need as an administrator.
Write all this down.
Now again if you're selling something don't forget to write down I need to settle payments.
I need to be able to accept payments.
You use Paypal maybe you stripe or make sure that you know that that's going to go in the application
and then you write this down guys organization for this whole list doesn't matter.
Scribble it down songs on a piece of paper you're not going to forget it.
This process I think honestly will take a good chunk of your time.
Not you know 30 minutes not a I mean I'd say it takes maybe an hour or so.
How big your application is how much you've actually put into it.
You really don't want to leave anything out.
Later on it doesn't you know you can think of extra things to add and it's very easy to add it but it's
much easier if you remember at the beginning that you can take everything into consideration and you
can make judgment calls about what's important and what's not important.
That's also a great segue with a lot of people do this section and they're determining their scope.
What's important here is that you don't go crazy with it.
Please do not just go nuts.
A lot of people to say OK need a box that does this and I need this to pop up and you click this it
is going to do this stuff and they just list out.
Way way way too much stuff.
We for instance had a client who built a social networking app and just added features and features
and features and features and features.
So when you're doing this you're trying to think of it from the very beginning.
Think of the things that are essential to what you're trying to do and then think of the things that
are extra I personally like to divide these out electric divide them out by saying number one.
Here's the core functions.
And number two here's the here's the extra extemporaneous.
The non-nut necessary scope with the application.
Try to get all of us out on a scribble paper.
Once you do and what you can't think anything else you always come back to it.
But otherwise you're ready to go.
And number three now number three is when we actually start getting into the wire framing and the prototyping
process.
EP 1 and step 2 those were just the pre-work processes those are the things that we set down in a scribble
pad and think about it.
Once you get the pre-work done then you're ready to actually dive in and start physically making your
mockup.
So number three is structure now structure is the high level way of looking at your page your application
your design what you're doing here is you're just thinking about OK now that I have all my functions
listed out where are these going to go.
Roughly right.
What is my page roughly going to look like is you know look like a traditional web site we're at the
top left we have the logo then you have a navigation bar and you footer.
And in the middle sections are all the content is.
Or maybe it's a little less traditional Maybe it's like a blog or on say the right hand side we see
information or we see articles on the left hand side.
We have the navigation bar.
It's a vertical navigation bar.
You you think about how the layout is going to look roughly where things are going to go.
The best way honestly to do this and we're going to cover this later in the lecture is the set down
of a piece of paper and a pen.
The best way is to literally just take a pen and start jotting off drawing a box for a web site or a
smaller rectangle for a mobile application and start just kind of filling in where you think sections
would go.
You don't like it tear it up try another page.
The point is just to start putting it out there and as soon as your pen starts touching the pad you'll
start to understand whether or not something feels right works right whether or not you should change
it up later in the course we're actually going to do that and I'm going to walk you through when I do
it with an application and then you can get a little bit more of a feel but that's the best way of doing
this.
Now mind us advice for doing structure figuring out where the lay out is where your information should
be where your content should be is actually just to look at other Web sites.
This is a really good way because not all of us are people who spend all day mixing around with Web
sites thinking about what the best way of capturing an email address is or inputting a form or loading
a photograph.
And you look at other Web sites then you can kind of get a gist of how most people do it and how some
other people who are thought leaders do it you're building an e-commerce store think about some the
stores you've been through that you liked the design you liked the layout of go to that site and see
what they do.
Now you can actually kind of think of OK that's interesting.
They put their search bar at the top left.
They don't put it at say the bottom.
Or maybe you find a page that is really long and maybe that's an interesting way of doing it.
If you're building say a content Web site goaland look at other content Web sites look at ones that
are famous and look at ones that you personally like.
Honestly I think that you can benefit just from looking at anyone's Web site and seeing what their structure
is how they lay out the information and you'll find out that it's not you know you want to pave your
own path in some ways but also you want to keep it simpler.
You want to keep it based on what other people do because other users are probably use to certain site
layouts.
So you don't want to deviate too much but that's the best way of doing it.
Find some Web sites you really really like.
If you're building a big web application maybe you could go and look at your favorite software as a
service company or your favorite subscription service.
If you're building an administration panel or something it's like an enterprise enterprise application
maybe you go look at a really nice accounting software like zero is a great example of a really nice
administration panel user flow and structure.
Now keep in mind this process does not need to be perfect.
It's not supposed to be perfect not to be flawless.
Remember we're amateurs at this.
So when the first time you do this you're not going to know everything you're not going to get it perfectly.
The point though is just to start sketching it out.
Getting a rough idea where you think things should go.
Doing some basic research for 20 30 minutes looking at other Web sites getting kind of an idea of where
they put their bottoms where they put their information and then you'll start to form some opinions
whether you like it whether or not you don't and you can start to put that on paper.
Next up is number four which is skeleton.
Now selten we're not really going to talk about a ton right now but it is the wire framing process.
It's the low fidelity mockup.
Later in the course you're going to follow me along as I make a wireframe and I use balsamic and Pinocchio
to make low fidelity wireframe.
You're going to follow along or learn a lot more just watching me do it and talking out loud explaining
to you what I'm thinking and what I'm doing.
But that's the forth process that's when you actually put it out and you start caring about not only
the layout but what the buttons kind of are shaped like where your text is going to go.
You might focus you'll pay attention to more details of smaller things you'll try to get as close as
you can.
You'll start putting actual pieces of elements on your page and starting to get a better visual feel
for what it's going to look like.
One of the biggest differences between structure and skeleton structure we're just going for layer.
This section has this information a section of this information now it's skeleton you're going to say
this is the section in this section.
Here are the individual elements.
That's what you're actually gonna do.
So if I were to say looking at let's say YouTube and I said over here I want recommendations for other
videos now in structure all I would say is I want a list of videos and I'll draw a box and say list
of videos.
However in skeleton what I would do is I would draw it out and then actually decide is the thumbnail
going to be on the left or the right.
How big is the thumbnail how many lines of information should I have.
How big is the whole thing going to be.
Now the the fifth and final section this is surface.
This is not something that's actually covered in the course.
But basically what it is is it's graphic design.
It's going out and getting a visual design for your application.
It's the number five because that is the finish point for getting your application design.
Now in this course we're going to go through Number Five and once we have our designs done we're going
to take those designs and make a high fidelity prototype that works and functions and looks like it's
real.
But if you don't have graphic design skills you're going to struggle with the s.c you have to look for
someone else to do that or someone in your organization to do basic design for you.
There are many many ways of getting that done in another lecture we're actually going to talk about
that.
So that's it.
One all the way through five.
You just follow it in that order.
You don't necessarily need to do every single step of the process but this is by far the easiest and
the most accurate way of doing it especially if you're new to this.
You start at the top.
It's the easiest.
Then it it's a little bit harder but you've already done some of the work already.
So you can draw off of what you did in the previous section and you just keep snowballing it down until
will amaze yourself at what you've actually designed.
Now you don't need to spend a ton of time throughout this entire process.
Just keep in mind the more time you spend the more you'll get out of it.
I think if you give an honest amount of effort teach one or two sections and you follow it in order
you will come out with a much higher quality in productivity much happier with it.
Of course if you already know how to do some of this you don't feel like you need to you can skip it.
I just don't suggest it.
All right guys like usual.
Any questions clarifications.
Posts in the group discussion you have any ideas for better ways of thinking about it.
I'd love to hear it.
If you want to add some things then this is perfectly fine.
This is a system we use.
I think it's simple.
I like it because it works for people who are not you X UI designers you can understand this very easily
and take it in easily just jump right in.
And that's that's really what I like about it it's simple and we get the essence out very quickly and
the questions guys let me know.
Otherwise I will see the next lecture.